---
layout: ../../../layouts/RunLayout.astro
title: "October 2023 10K Time Trial"
date: "2023-10-22"
hoursOfSleep: "7:46"
timeElapsed: "1:10:20"
distanceCovered: "10.00"
averagePace: "7:02"
tags: ["October 2023 10K Time Trial", "Event"]
---

After a bunch of delays, I finally ran the 10k time trial. Here are my goals for this race: <br/><br/>

<ul>
    <li>A - 1:07:40 (6:46/km) - (No)</li>
    <li>B - 1:09:00 (Faster than current PB) - (No)</li>
    <li>C - Finish Race - (Yes)</li>
</ul>

<br/>

I aimed to run this race at 6:46/km. The first 5 kilometers went smoothly. But by kilometer 6, I started to struggle to run continuously. It looks like I chose a pace that I can't quite maintain for the entire event. For the remaining 5 kilometers, what I did was take a brief walk break and then run at about a pace greater than my easy pace run but slower than my target pace. For the last 5 kilometers, I think my pace hovered around 7:30/km.

<br/>

I was disappointed at the end because I was not able to beat my 10K PB which was set during my half marathon run last June. It looks like everything went right for my June race. Nonetheless, I was able to finish the 10K time trial. I missed my previous PB by about a minute.

<br/>

Overall, my training for this event took about 16 weeks. Because it took that long, I was expecting a much better result. What I am thinking right now is that the modifications I have made to the Level 2 plan provided by Matt Fitzgerald were not good. It looks like I included too many easy runs. I also did not practice the goal race pace properly so it came back to bite me during the event. Maybe 16 weeks is also too long of a training block for a 10k run. I'll try to reduce it to 12 weeks next time. I'll also make sure to practice at the correct pace that I am targetting. There have been many learnings for this race and I hope to have a better performance next time.

<br/>

For the next event, I am not yet sure whether to do a 5k time trial or a much shorter race like 1km or 1 mile. I will not follow any training plans for now. I will just try to build my mileage and do some threshold runs until December. I will try another training plan next year. I think I will try the Jack Daniels plan next time.

<br/>

Even though I am disappointed with the result, I am proud that I finished this race and I still persevered to finish it.
